Drude applied kinetic theory to this "gas" of conduction electrons of mass m, which (in contrast to the molecules of an ordinary gas) move against a background of heavy immobile ions. The density of the electron gas can be calculated as follows:

A metallic element contains  0 . 6 0 2 2 \times 1 0 ^ { 2 4 } atoms per mole (Avogadro's number) and  \rho _ { m } / A moles per  \mathrm { c m } ^ { 3 } ,where  \rho _ { m } is the mass density (in grams per cubic centimeter) and A is the atomic mass of the element. Since each atom contributes Z electrons, the number of electrons per cubic centimeter,  n = N / V , is

$$
n = 0 . 6 0 2 2 \times 1 0 ^ { 2 4 } \frac { Z \rho _ { m } } { A } .\tag{1.1}
$$

Table 1.1 shows the conduction electron densities for some selected metals, They are typically of order  1 0 ^ { 2 2 } conduction electrons per cubic centimeter, varying from  0 . 9 1 \ \times \ 1 0 ^ { 2 2 } for cesium up to  2 4 . 7 \times 1 0 ^ { 2 2 } for beryllium. Also listed in Table 1.1 is a widely used measure of the electronic density.  r _ { s * } defined as the radius of a sphere whose volume is equal to the volume per conduction electron. Thus

$$
\frac { V } { N } = \frac { 1 } { n } = \frac { 4 \pi { r _ { s } } ^ { 3 } } { 3 } ; ~ r _ { s } = { \left( \frac { 3 } { 4 \pi n } \right) } ^ { 1 , 3 } .\tag{1.2}
$$

Table 1.1 lists  r _ { s } both in angstroms  ( 1 0 ^ { - 8 } cm) and in units of the Bohr radius  a _ { 0 } = \hbar ^ { 2 } / m e ^ { 2 } = 0 . 5 2 9 \times 1 0 ^ { - 8 } cm; the latter length, being a measure of the radius of a hydrogen atom in its ground state, is often used as a scale for measuring atomic distances. Note that  r _ { s } / a _ { 0 } is between 2 and 3 in most cases, although it ranges between 3 and 6 in the alkali metals (and can be as large as 10 in some metallic compounds).

These densities are typically a thousand times greater than those of a classical gas at normal temperatures and pressures. In spite of this and in spite of the strong electron-electron and electron-ion electromagnetic interactions, the Drude model boldly treats the dense metallic electron gas by the methods of the kinetic theory of a neutral dilute gas, with only slight modifications. The basic assumptions are these:

1. Between collisions the interaction of a given electron, both with the others and with the ions, is neglected. Thus in the absence of externally applied electromagnetic fields each electron is taken to move uniformly in a straight line. In the presence of externally applied fields each electron is taken to move as determined by Newton's laws of motion in the presence of those external fields, but neglecting the additional complicated fields produced by the other electrons and ions.6 The neglect of electron-electron interactions between collisions is known as the independent electron approximation. The corresponding neglect of electron-ion interactions is known as the free electron approximation. We shall find in subsequent chapters that although the independent electron approximation is in many contexts surprisingly good, the free electron approximation must be abandoned if one is to arrive at even a qualitative understanding of much of metallic behavior.

5 This is the range for metallic elements under normal conditions. Higher densities can be attained by application of pressure (which tends to favor the metallic state). Lower densities are found in compounds.

6 Strictly speaking, the electron-ion interaction is not entirely ignored, for the Drude model implicitly assumes that the electrons are confined to the interior of the metal. Evidently this confinement is brought about by their attraction to the positively charged ions. Gross effects of the electron-ion and defn inteal fel epreentingtheveag effethe lectonlecton an econ-on ntecions.