dimensions, but is independent of the size of the current or potential drop. The Drude
model accounts for this behavior and provides an estimate of the size of the resistance.

One generally eliminates the dependence of R on the shape of the wire by introducing a quantity characteristic only of the metal of which the wire is composed. The resistivity  \rho is defined to be the proportionality constant between the electric field E at a point in the metal and the current density j that it induces10.

$$
{ \bf E } = \rho { \bf j } .\tag{1.3}
$$

The current density j is a vector. parallel to the flow of charge, whose magnitude is the amount of charge per unit time crossing a unit area perpendicular to the flow. Thus if a uniform current I fows through a wire of length L and cross-sectional area A, the current density will be  j = I , A Since the potential drop along the wire will be  V = E L , Eq. (1.3) gives  V = I \rho L / . 4 . ,and hence  R = \rho L / A

If n electrons per unit volume all move with velocity v, then the current density they give rise to will be parallel to v. Furthermore, in a time dt the electrons will advance by a distance v dt in the direction of v, so that  n ( \tau d t ) A electrons will cross an area A perpendicular to the direction of flow. Since each electron carries a charge  - e , the charge crossing 4 in the time dt will be  - n e t A d t , and hence the current density is

$$
{ \bf j } = - n e { \bf v } .\tag{1.4}
$$

At any point in a metal, electrons are always moving in a variety of directions with a variety of thermal energies. The net current density is thus given by (1.4), where v is the average electronic velocity. In the absence of an electric field, electrons are as likely to be moving in any one direction as in any other, v averages to zero, and, as expected, there is no net electric current density. In the presence of a field E, however, there will be a mean electronic velocity directed opposite to the feld (the electronic charge being negative), which we can compute as follows:

Consider a typical electron at time zero. Let t be the time elapsed since its last collision. Its velocity at time zero will be its velocity  \Psi _ { 0 } immediately after that collision plus the additional velocity  - e \mathbf { E } t / m it has subsequently acquired. Since we assume that an electron emerges from a collision in a random direction, there will be no contribution from  { \bf v } _ { 0 } to the average electronic velocity, which must therefore be given entirely by the average of  - e \mathbf { E } t / m However, the average of t is the relaxation time . Therefore

$$
\mathbf { \boldsymbol { \nu } } _ { \mathrm { a v g } } = - \ \frac { e \mathbf { E } \tau } { m } ; ~ \mathbf { \ j } = \left( \frac { n e ^ { 2 } \tau } { m } \right) \mathbf { \boldsymbol { \mathbf { E } } } .\tag{1.5}
$$

This result is usually stated in terms of the inverse of the resistivity, the conductivity  \sigma = 1 / \rho ;

$$
\boxed { \begin{array} { l l } { \mathbf { j } = \sigma \mathbf { E } ; } & { \sigma = \frac { n e ^ { 2 } \tau } { m } . } \end{array} }\tag{1.6}
$$

Inl, Ene ot be palOne hen e y no. Se Chap  n .